Douglas Engelbart was born in 1925. He graduated in electrical engineering in 1948. After that, he continued his studies at Berkeley University, where he earned a doctorate in electrical engineering and taught there for a while. Already then, he was interested in the human-machine relationship, and his research brought him numerous patents. In 1957 it was transferred to the Stanford Research Institute.

Engelbart, in order to make computers easier to use, thought that there needed to be a device with which people could work more comfortably, a device with which the pointer could be moved on the screen. At that time, stick steering and light pencils already existed, but he did not consider them effective enough. This new device, without which it is almost impossible to use a computer today, became the mouse he designed, which he initially called the "x-y positioner".
The first mice still worked with a metal ring, and it was only later that this was changed to a ball. Later, the demand arose that the mouse did not have to be connected to the machine with a cable. Today, infrared and wireless mice are the most common.
The first mice still worked with a metal ring, and it was only later that this was changed to a ball. Later, the demand arose that the mouse did not have to be connected to the machine with a cable. Today, infrared and wireless mice are the most common.
Engelbart received the prestigious Turing Award, the $500,000 MIT-Lemelson Award, and the IEEE János Neumann Award for his work.
Among Engelbart's several inventions, the mouse proved to be the most decisive - his success, however, came slowly. After submitting in 1967, he received a patent for his invention in 1970:

"The first prototypes were still made of wood, instead of a roller, they had two metal wheels that turned, they could be used to position the cursor on the screen, which at that time was still called a "bug". Engelbart chose the name "mouse" for his invention because of the shape of the device made by the engineer's colleague, Bill English, according to his claim, the cable sticking out of the small box reminded him of the mouse's thin tail.

English further perfected the invention: by the end of the 1970s, the mouse no longer contained wheels, but a large ball, sensing both down-up and right-left movement. When the first mouse was born, Engelbart was working at SRI (Stanford Research Institute), while English was at Xerox during its development, but it became widely known through Apple, which included it as an accessory for Macintosh machines in 1984.
He had four children from his first wife, who died in 1997. He married his second wife in 2008. He has nine grandchildren.