In 1962, Dr. Joseph Carl Robnett Licklider articulated the earliest ideas for global networking in a series of memos titled "Intergalactic Computer Networking." Both a well-liked and respected person, he demonstrated his wonderful conscience many times. His original and long-term visions outlined many of the features offered on the Internet today: graphical computing, user-friendly interfaces, digital libraries, e-commerce, online banking, and cloud computing.
In 1963, while serving as director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) of the United States Department of Defense, dr. It was Licklider's compelling and detailed account of the challenges of building a time-sharing network of computers that ultimately led to its creation. the ARPAnet. In 1968, his paper "The Computer as a Communication Tool" introduced his concept of network applications and predicted the use of computer networks for communication purposes. Until then, computers were generally seen as mathematical tools for speeding up calculations.
JCR Licklider
He was interested in information technology, and in 1950 moved to MIT as an associate professor, where he served on a committee that established MIT's Lincoln Laboratory and a psychology program for engineering students. At MIT, Licklider participated in the SAGE project as head of the human factors team.  In 1957, he received the Franklin V. Taylor Award from the Society of Engineering Psychologists. In 1958 he was elected president of the Acoustical Society of America, and in 1990 he received the Commonwealth Award for Distinguished Service. 
Licklider left MIT to become vice president of Bolt Beranek and Newman in 1957. He learned about time-sharing from Christopher Strachey at a UNESCO-sponsored information processing conference in Paris in 1959. [12] [13] At BBN, he developed the BBN Time-Sharing System and conducted the first public demonstration of time-sharing. [14]
In October 1962, Licklider was appointed head of the United States Department of Defense's Advanced Research Projects Agency, ARPA's Information Processing Technical Office (IPTO) [15]. He held this appointment until July 1964. [16] [17] In April 1963, he sent a memo to his colleagues outlining the early challenges of creating a time-sharing computer network with the software of the day. [18] Ultimately, his vision led to ARPANet, the forerunner of today's Internet. [19]
After serving as manager of information sciences, systems, and applications at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, New York from 1964 to 1967, Licklider rejoined MIT in 1968 as a professor of electrical engineering. During this period, he was simultaneously the director of Project MAC until 1971. [20] Project MAC produced the first computer time-sharing system, CTSS, and one of the first online systems with the development of Multics (work began in 1964). Multics inspired elements of the Unix operating system developed at Bell Labs by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie in 1970. [21]
After his second stint as director of IPTO (1974–1975), MIT faculty transferred him to the Institute's Computer Science Laboratory, where he worked for the remainder of his career. In 1979, he was a founding member of Infocom, known for its interactive fiction computer games. [22] He retired and became professor emeritus in 1985.
ARPAnet was eventually eclipsed by the Internet, and the year ARPAnet officially shut down—1990—Dr. Licklider died at the age of 75.