Robert Elliot Kahn (New York, December 23, 1938 –) is the inventor of the TCP protocol, Vinton G. Cerffel is the creator of the IP protocol, the technologies we use for Internet data transmission.
After receiving the B.E.E. from New York College in 1960, he earned an M.A. in 1962 and a Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1964.
He started working at ARPA in 1972. In October of this year, at the International Computer Communication Conference, he presented ARPANET, a network of 40 computers that the public could see for the first time. After becoming director of DARPA's Information Processing Techniques Office (IPTO), he began the United States' billion-dollar strategic computing program, the largest research and development program of its kind in the history of the federal government.
In 1993, he was awarded the SIGCOMM Award "for his visionary technical contributions and leadership in the development of information systems technology", and the 2004 Turing Award was shared with Vint Cerff "for pioneering work in the field of the Internet, including.. . protocols". and for inspired leadership in networking."
Vint Cerf and Robert Kahn were awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Bush
He has won the AFIPS Harry Goode Memorial Award, the Marconi Award, the ACM SIGCOMM Award, the ACM President's Award, the IEEE Koji Kobayashi Computer and Communications Award, the IEEE Alexander Graham Bell Medal, the IEEE Third Millennium Medal, the ACM Software Systems Award, the Computerworld/Smithsonian Award, the ASIS Special Award, and the Computing Research Board Public Service Award. He twice received the Civil Service Award of the Minister of National Defense.
In 1998, he was awarded an honorary degree by the University of Pavia.
In 1999, he received the American Computer and Robotics Museum's Stibitz-Wilson Award for pioneering work on the Internet as a major contributor to the design and development of the original ARPANET NCP protocol and as a co-inventor of the Internet's TCP/IP protocol.
After thirteen years, he left DARPA to found the Corporation for National Research Initiatives (CNRI). In 2006, he was the company's president and CEO and chairman of the board of directors. CNRI is a non-profit organization that manages and financially supports the development of the national information infrastructure.
In 2008, he received the Japan Prize.