Vannevar Bush was born in 1890. Vannevar Bush was President Roosevelt's scientific advisor. Between 1946 and 1947, Bush was chairman of the Joint Research and Development Board. ARPA was later born out of this organization. In June 1945, in the Atlantic Monthly, he published his study entitled As we may think, and thus practically laid the foundations of the concept of hypertext.
Bush dreamed of a machine that would make it easier to navigate the ever-accumulating amount of knowledge. The table would store information on Memex (MEMory Extender) microfilm and offer immediate access to it based on unique codes invisible to the human eye.
The real innovation of the machine is the way to navigate through this document maze. In contrast to traditional data structuring, i.e. the alphabetical or strictly hierarchical information storage system of libraries, Memex would offer a solution similar to human associations. Through "connective indexing", it is possible to build and use direct references in the data set: any part of any text can be assigned to any part of any text. The connection established in this way can then be stored in the machine's memory for later recall. In essence, this concept does not differ in any way from today's concept of a hypertext link: by clicking on the link or pressing the appropriate key combination, we can immediately jump to other places in the hypertext text universe.
His work has become a source of inspiration to this day, among others he contributed to the works of Ted Nelson, Douglas Engelbart and Tim Berners Lee, the result of which was today's Web.
In 1925, he created the intergraph, a tool for solving first-order differential equations. Another student, Harold Hazen, proposed an extension of the device. for handling second-order differential equations. Bush immediately recognized the potential of such an invention, since they were much more difficult to solve, but are also quite common in physics. Under Bush's supervision, Hazen was able to create the differential analyzer, a table-like array of axes and pens that mechanically simulated and plotted the desired equation. Unlike earlier, purely mechanical designs, the differential analyzer had both electrical and mechanical components.
In 1932, Compton appointed Bush to the newly created post of vice president. Bush also became dean of the MIT School of Engineering that year. The two positions carried a salary of $12,000 plus annual expenses of $6,000.