Lawrence Gilman Roberts (December 21, 1937 – December 26, 2018) was an American engineer who received the 2001 Draper Prize "for the development of the Internet" and the 2002 Principe de Asturias Award.
As program manager and then office director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency, Roberts and his team created the ARPANET using packet-switching techniques invented by British computer scientist Donald Davies and Polish-American engineer Paul Baran.
Roberts later served as CEO of the commercial packet-switched network Telenet, North America's first public data network.
Roberts, known as Larry, was born and raised in Westport, Connecticut, the son of Elizabeth (Gilman) and Elliott John Roberts, both of whom had Ph.D.s in chemistry. In his youth, he is said to have built a Tesla coil, assembled a television, and designed a telephone network made of transistors for his parents' Boy Scout camp. Roberts attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he earned a bachelor's degree (1959), a master's degree (1960), and a Ph.D. (1963). , both in electrical engineering. Ph.D. his thesis "Machine detection of three-dimensional solids" was about the field of computer vision.
After receiving his Ph.D., Roberts went on to work at MIT's Lincoln Laboratory. After reading JCR Licklider's 1961 paper "Intergalactic Computer Networking", Roberts developed a research interest in time sharing using computer networks.
In 1967, although reluctant at first, Robert Taylor hired him at ARPA's Information Processing Techniques Office (IPTO) to become the ARPANET program manager. Roberts met with Paul Baran in February 1967, but did not discuss the networks. He asked Frank Westervelt to look into the initial design issues of the network. Roberts made a proposal that all host computers would connect directly to each other. Taylor and Wesley Clark disagreed with this plan, and Clark proposed the use of dedicated computers to create a message exchange network, later named Interface Message Processors.
At the Operating System Principles Symposium that year, Roberts presented a design based on Clark's message-switching proposal. There he met a member of Donald Davies' team (Roger Scantlebury) who presented their research on packet switching and proposed its use in the ARPANET. Roberts Davies applied his packet switching concept to the ARPANET and asked Paul Baran for his opinion.
In 1973, Roberts left ARPA to join BBN's efforts to commercialize nascent packet-switching technology in the form of Telenet, the first FCC-licensed public data network in the United States. Between 1973 and 1980 he was its general manager. Shortly before its finalization, Roberts joined an international effort to standardize a packet-switching protocol based on virtual circuits.
In 1983, he joined DHL Corporation as President. At the time, he predicted that bandwidths would shrink due to audio compression technology.
From 1983 to 1993, he was CEO of NetExpress, an asynchronous transfer method (ATM) equipment company. Roberts was president of ATM Systems from 1993 to 1998. He was president and CTO of Caspian Networks, but left in early 2004; Caspian ceased operations at the end of 2006.
As of 2011, Roberts was the founder and president of Anagran Inc. Anagran continues its work in the same field as Caspian: IP flow management with better quality of Internet service.