Vinton Cerf was born in 1943. He graduated from Van Nuys High School in Los Angeles, with Jon Postel and Steve Crocker, who later also became emblematic figures of the creation of the Internet. Cerf quickly proved his IT skills, already during this period he worked for Rocketdyne for six months as part of the Apollo program, working on the production of software for the statistical analysis of the testing of the F-1 engine of the Saturn V launch vehicle . After graduating from high school, he obtained his BSc degree in mathematics from Stanford University. Cerf started working at IBM as a systems engineer and for two years was involved in the support of the QUIKTRAN interactive programming language. After that, however, he decided that he wanted to learn more about IT systems and, leaving IBM, enrolled at UCLA (University of California, Los Angeles). Here he obtained his MSc in 1970 and his PhD in 1972. His professor was Gerald Estrin and he did his research in Leonard Kleinrock's packet data networking group.
With the title "A Protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication", in which the theoretical foundations of the later TCP/IP protocol, which is still used today, were laid. After this, however, a very long work followed, until in November 1981, RFC 801 was published, whose title was "NCP/TCP transition plan" and which marked the first of January 1983 as "Flag Day", when the entire network will finally transition to use the new TCP/IP protocol. In the TCP/IP protocol, Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn had already separated the functions of TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and IP (Internet Protocol), which they thought of implementing in one more function in the article published in 1974. In the end , the fourth version of the IP protocol managing the addressing system, IPv4, became the final one, so it was introduced on January 1, 1983.
This means that since 1983 - i.e. around forty years - the Internet has been operating with the protocol developed and implemented under the leadership of Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn. With this, they both earned the permanent epithet of the father of the Internet. It is true that the IPv6 protocol has already been created due to the increase in the addressing range and the introduction of other advantages, but its introduction is progressing slowly, and IPv4 still dominates the Internet. In its principles, this also completely follows the principles of Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn.
Meanwhile, after obtaining his PhD in 1972, Cerf became an assistant professor at Stanford University and taught there until 1976. In parallel, he also worked for DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) between 1973 and 1982, where he created several working groups for the development of TCP/IP, packet-switched radio (PRNET), packet-switched satellite (SATNET) and packet-switched security.
From 1982 to 1986, as vice president of MCI Digital Information Services, he worked on the launch of the MCI Mail service, the first commercial e-mail service. In 1986, he joined Bob Kahn, becoming vice president of the Corporation for National Research Initiatives, where he and Kahn managed the development of digital libraries, automatic information retrieval programs, and gigabit speed networks.